## Testing for cointegration (Enders ch6)
- Engle-Granger Methoddogy (1987)

- Johansen Methoddogy (1988)

Before using time-series model, we should ensure the time series data is stationary.And if the data is stationary, we can use VAR model.If not,

1. Pretest the variable for their order of integration.
2. if both $\{y_i\},\{z_i\}$ are **I(1)** , etsimate the long-run relationship.

$$y_t=\beta_0+\beta_1z_t+e_t\leftarrow OLS$$

If variables are cointegration OLS regression yields super-consistented estimator of $\beta_0,\beta_1$.

------------------------
**Note:**

**NOT** use t-statistics to test significance of $\beta_0$ $\beta_1$.

-------------------

When we regress the long-run relationship model, we should also test the model's validality. And the method is followed. For a single variable $\{y_i\}$, we  test whether it is stationary at first.
And we can use DF or ADF test.（There is three forms of DF test）

One form:

$$\Delta y_t=a_1\hat{y_{t-1}}+\epsilon_t$$
------------------
**Note:**

Long-run relationship is modeled by cointegration model.And short-run relationship is modled by ECM(error correction model).

-----------------

### Error-correction Model


$$A:\Delta y_t=\alpha_1+\alpha_y(y_{t-1}-\beta_0-\beta_1z_{t-1})+\Sigma_{i=1}\alpha_{11}\Delta y_{t-i}+\Sigma_{i=1}\alpha_{12}(i)\Delta z_{t-i}+\epsilon_{yt}$$

$$B: \Delta z_t=\alpha_2+\alpha_z(y_{t-1}-\beta_0-\beta_1z_{t-1})+\Sigma_{i=1}\alpha_{21}\Delta y_{t-i}+\Sigma_{i=1}\alpha_{22}(i)\Delta z_{t-i}+\epsilon_{zt}$$

When we got the long-run relationship model, we can model the short-run relationship by ECM for detailed analysis.The ECM is described above, but we don't need to estimate $\beta_0$ and $\beta_1$ again and just replace the long-run relationship equation by the fitted value, so we can replace the equation $y_{t-1}-\hat{\beta_0}-\hat{\beta_1}z_{t-1}$ with $\hat{e_t}$.

---------

**Note:**

Testing whether a sequence is a white noise sequence we use Box-Ljung test.

------------------

### Johansen(1988) & Stock and Waston(1988) Method

$$\Delta x_t=\pi x_{t-1}+\epsilon_t$$

$$\Delta x_t=\pi x_{t-1}+\Sigma_{i=1}^{p-1}\pi_i\Delta x_{t-i}\epsilon_t$$


If

- rank($\pi$)=0 $\rightarrow$ no cointegration

- rank($\pi$)=n $\rightarrow$ each of n variables must be stationary

- $1\leq$ rank($\pi$) $\leq n-1 \rightarrow$  there are **r** cointegrated vectors.

And r=rank($\pi$).

----------
**Note:**

Johansen et al. trickly transform the problem of cointegration relation of vectors into the matrix's ($\pi$) rank.

The rank of a matrix is equal to the number of the characterastic roots that differ from zero.

The characterastic roots of $\pi$ are as follows.

$$1>\lambda_1>\lambda_2>...>\lambda_n$$

When rank($\pi$)=r, we have $\lambda_1>\lambda_2>...>\lambda_r>0$ and others are 0.

--------
#### Two statistics

$$\lambda_{trace(r)}=-T\Sigma_{i=r+1}^n ln(1-\hat{\lambda_i})$$

$$\lambda_{max(r,r+1)}=-T ln(1-\hat{\lambda_{r+1}})$$


- Trace: $H_1:$ there are n cointegrating vectors.
- Max: $H_1:$ there are r+1 cointegrating vectors.

Maybe we find rank=n finally, but we know the variables in the model are nonstationary.The reason is that there exists something wrong of model or there is a break in the data. So we need to explore the details of the data.


#### <u>HW</u>
