# Nonlinear Model

Reference Enders ch7

#### Example:
- Wage rigidity
- Downturns in Business Cycle are shaper than recoveries

these situations demonstrate changes are sometimes non-linear.

## Threhold Autoregression (TAR) Model

$r_{Lt}$ : long run interest

$r_{St}$ : short run interest

${s_t}=r_{Lt}-r_{St}$

and long-run value of the difference is
$\bar{s}$

$$s_t= \left \{
  \begin{matrix}
  \bar{s}+a_1(s_{t-1}-\bar s)+\epsilon_{1t} & if \ s_{t-1}>\bar s ; \\
\bar s+ a_2(s_{t-1}-\bar s)+\epsilon_{2t} & if \ s_{t-1} \leq\bar s.
\end{matrix}
\right.
$$
we have
$a_2>a_1$

## Nonlinear

$$AR(1): y_t=a_1 y_{t-1} +\epsilon_t \\
NLAR(1): y_t=f(y_{t-1}) +\epsilon_t =a_1(y_{t-1})\bullet y_{t-1}+\epsilon_t \\

NLAR(p):y_t=f(y_{t-1},...,y_{t-p})+\epsilon_t=a_0+\Sigma_{i=1}^p a_iy_{t-i}+\Sigma_{i=1}^p\Sigma_{j=1}^p\Sigma_{k=1}^r\Sigma_{l=1}^s a_{ijkl}y_{t-i}^ky_{t-j}^l

$$

use Taylor extension form to linearize the function f(.) .

- If we want to test nonlinear model's validity, we can use F-test to check whether $a_{ijkl}$ is not zero significantly.
- If we want to pick up a better model, we can use AIC/SBC.

### Bilinear(BL) Model

General form of BL(p,q,r,s)

$$
y_t=\alpha_0+\Sigma_{i=1}^p \alpha_i y_{t-i}+\epsilon_t+\Sigma_{i=1}^q \beta_i \epsilon_{t-i}+\Sigma_{i=1}^r\Sigma_{j=1}^sc_{ij}y_{t-i}\epsilon_{t-j}
$$

the equation implicate  stochastic parameter

$$y_t=\alpha_0+\alpha_1y_{t-1}+c_1\epsilon_{t-1}y_{t-1}+\epsilon_t=\alpha_0+(\alpha_1+c_1\epsilon_{t-1})y_{t-1}+\epsilon_t$$

When there is nonlinear relation among $y_t$, we can not  just use ACF/PACF to get p/q order and we should also ACF/PACF of check $y_{t}^2$ and higher order of $y_t$ .
## Test
Check on whether we need to pick up nonlinear model.
### Mcleod-Li Test (1998)

squared residuals from a linear equation

1. estimate the best fitting linear model get {$\hat e_t$}.
2. form the autocorrelation of {$\hat e_t^2$}
3. use the Ljung-Box statistics to determine whether $\hat e_t^2$ exhibit serial correlation.

$\hat e_t^2=\alpha_0+\alpha_1 \hat e_{t-1}^2+...+\alpha_n \hat e_{t-n}^2+v_t$

$H_0:\alpha_1=\alpha_1=...=\alpha_n=0$

### Regression Error Specification Test (RESET)
1. estimate the best fitting linear model get {$\hat e_t$}, {$\hat y_t$}.
2. select a value for H(usually 3 or 4), estimate
$$\hat e_t=\delta z_t+\Sigma_{h=2}^H \alpha_h \hat y_t^h \ \ for H \geq 2$$
$$H_0: \alpha_2=...=\alpha_H=0$$
if we reject null hyperthesis, we should use nonlinear model.

*Drawback:* it can not detect asymmetric model.

the test methods above can not tell us which model(GAR or BL) we should use and just tell us if model is nonlinear.

### Lagrange Multiplier Tests

The method test for a specified type of nonlinearity.

Assume $var(\epsilon_t)=\sigma^2$ .

Let $f(\alpha)$ be the nonlinear functional form

1. estimate the best fitting linear model get {$\hat e_t$}.
2. obtain all the partial derivatives $\partial f(\alpha)/\partial \alpha$
Estimate the auxiliary regression by regressing $\hat e_t$ on these partial derivatives

3. $TR^2 \sim \chi(\# of partial )$

if initial model is  BL model, when we partial f(.) there is $\epsilon_{t-i}$ in derivatives and we can use $\hat e_{t-i}$ instead of $\epsilon_{t-i}$.
